Update cloud.md with guidelines that came out of the AI/ML Working Group (#247)
Lullabot/information-security-policy: communications/cloud.md

## What is a Cloud Service or SaaS?

We consider a cloud service or SaaS to be any software application hosted by the vendor and accessed over the internet. Examples include Google Suite, Dropbox, Noko, and even applications like Apple Music that use cloud sync and storage.

## Key Terms to Understand

1. **Data Handling Policies**: Documented practices for collecting, storing, processing, and disposing of user data.
2. **Data Usage**: How the service utilizes collected data, including AI model training and third-party sharing.
3. **Acceptable Permissions**: Access rights a service reasonably needs to function effectively without compromising privacy or security.
4. **Sensitive Content**: Information that could potentially harm individuals or organizations if mishandled, including PII, financial data, unpublished content, and intellectual property.

## Evaluation Process for New Cloud/SaaS Services

### Key Questions to Ask

1. **Company Location**:

>    - Is the company based in the US or an allied country?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Is the company based in the United States or an allied country?
```

>    - Be cautious of companies based in countries like China, Syria, Saudi Arabia, or Russia.

Reviewer: 🤔 I wonder if we need this second line. Like some of these may not be "be cautious" but "do not use", but we don't actually have a documented list that way.

Author: What do you think it would take to get this list? Or should we just remove the line?

2. **Data Handling**:
   - Can data be deleted if needed?
   - Is data being shared with others?
   - Are they using your data to train AI models?
   - How do they handle accidental input of sensitive information?

3. **Permissions**:
   - What integrations does the service require (e.g., calendars, email, file storage)?
   - If it requires more than basic login information, involve the security team for review.

4. **Security History**:
   - Has the company had any notable security breaches?

>    - Check sources like Hacker News and Google News for reported incidents.

Reviewer: Let's prioritize the one that is more broadly accessible first.

```suggestion
   - Check sources like Google News and Hacker News for reported incidents.
```

### Decision Tree for Evaluation

> To help guide your evaluation process, we've created a decision tree. You can find the visual representation [here](https://www.mermaidchart.com/raw/9bce760b-17c1-4154-b09f-09b9b955f7ff?theme=light\&version=v0.1\&format=png). 

Reviewer: Since this links to a PNG, how about we embed it directly?

Author: Do you mean upload the file and embed or actually just embed in the .md file?

- Use your personal email for services you'd continue using if you left Lullabot, or that don't contain Lullabot data.
- For services supporting multiple email addresses (e.g., GitHub), add both work and personal emails to manage different projects.

### Inviting Users

When possible, invite users using their email address rather than username to reduce the risk of accidentally adding unknown individuals.

### Separating Personal and Business Data

- Always separate personal and business data when the service allows it.
- Don't put Lullabot or client data into personal accounts, or personal information into Lullabot accounts.
- For services without easy separation (e.g., iCloud), use best security practices to protect all stored data.

### Client Engagements

Where possible, clients should be the account owners of cloud services in client engagements. The security committee can provide feedback, but the client should be primarily responsible for security reviews.

## Approved Services Examples

- NotebookLM (part of Lullabot.com account)
- ChatGPT (avoid divulging sensitive information)

> - Claude.ai (same guidelines as ChatGPT)

Reviewer: NotebookLM is the only one that is "approved" - and what I mean by that is, we don't have team accounts or anything like that for the other two.

I wonder if instead this could not be a section on "Approved services" but something like "Examples of Services Needing Evaluation by the Security Team"? And it should probably be broader than just AI too, and then go down after the Introducing New Services section.
